all right so today's lecture we're going
to cover abstract mathematics the last
lecture covered what operations on a set
specifically we had one thing that we
were covering and it was
called closure who in here could
summarize closure for

me that is that that is stated as best
anybody could State good job when you
take two elements of the set you
performal operation and so far all we
did was just addition subtraction
multiplication division right you take
two objects in the set apply that
operation to them you should get back
another element of the set correct now
does that mean that you pick two and it
goes in there or does it have to mean
that for any two that you do it has to
map back to Something in the set does
everybody see that to show that
something is not closed all you had to
do is show a counter one counter example
where it failed right we said that the
real numbers is not closed under
division because of one element what is
that zero can you define can you divide
anything by
Zero no what does that mean that means
undefined error that means you can't
consider that right don't say that
that's Infinity because that's when
you're talking about limit where that's
happening something over zero including
0 divid 0 is undefined so out of that
entire very dense infinite set one
element causes it to fail does that make
sense so to show something is not closed
you only have to show one counter
example do you have to give two do you
have to give three do you have to give
an explanation you just show one counter
example where it fails to show that it
is closed is sometimes a bit hard
because you have to make an abstract
statement to where you're not using
specific values but you're using a
construction that represent any
arbitrary two values you do that
construction and you show that it's in
the set does that make sense so how many
of you people remember that last time we
said why is it that the rationals are
closed under addition and we kind of
made the argument that it works for
subtraction too why is it closed under
addition remember what we said we picked
two elements represented them as
fractions we described that this is a
fraction two integers we found a common
denominator kind of abstractly added
them together made an argument that it's
still a fraction of two integers where
the denominator is not zero and so it
must have been another rational number
can anybody just by quickly me saying it
does everybody remember that what I
would expect is something like that to
may have to be done on a test everybody
gets a little upset about that because a
lot of you have already sent me a slack
notification saying I don't know if I
could have come off of that on the fly
on my own
fortunately I think as an engineer I'm
more interested about what you can do
when you have solid time to think about
it rather than what you can do on the
Fly uh personally I like driving across
bridges that have been well thought out
instead of somebody done the back of
envelope type calculations on it right
so what I would expect is if I have
things like that on the exam either the
entire exam will be take home or
there'll be parts of it to where you get
to take that home does that make sense
and work on together so let me tell you
a classic one I showed you how to do the
how to show that the even numbers are
closed under
addition are the odd numbers closed
under
addition 3 + 3 is six it's okay if you
noed yes that's okay six what about
multiplication if you multiply any two
odd numbers do you get another odd
number before you answer do do two of
them together before you 5 * 5 is 25 3 *
3 is nine 1 * 1 is okay so before we
answer we all an agreement that probably
the odd numbers are closed under
multiplication right because you
multiply two odds you get another odd
the problem is let's say the positive
odd numbers let's ring that the problem
is is that unless you want to go through
and write out every possible pair of
that entire infinite set which let's be
clear you can't do that right you're
going to have to make some sort of
argument so if you really want to know
how to prepare for the test I would walk
into the test knowing how to do
something like showing the odd numbers
are closed under
multiplication how are what is an odd
number we said all even numbers have the
form 2K + 1 where K is a whole
number sorry I just gave away I just
gave it away I gave it away didn't I
what are the even numbers 2K where K is
a whole number correct the odd numbers
are 2K + one where K is a whole number
right so if you were to take that
argument where you take two odd numbers
represent them as a form where they are
2K + 1 and some other number 2K + 1 show
them that you add together that you
still have something two * something
plus something else you'll be set does
that make sense and you'll be able to
demonstrate that so that'd be what
something I'd expect you to be able to
do all right so everybody's tired of me
talking everybody's excited about this
new Venture into abstract mathematics
I'm excited for you guys to be excited
about it so let's go a and get started
so we already mentioned that we have
things that have closure right well it
turns out that there's a few more
properties that we could actually add to
these sets to where if they meet all
these extra new properties they form a
very powerful Concept in mathematics in
that we're going to extend this into the
notion of what we know as addition
multiplication so that's what we're
heading we're going to abstractly Define
what it means to mathematically say you
can add and multiply at the same time on
a set okay but we're going to have to
take some some minor steps on this

first let's discuss what a group
is I need to go down on
so let's define a group a
group G so let G be a group oh

transition the screen
over so we could say let G be a group
okay what does it mean to be G well
first we have
to
Define an operation
just like we did last time can we even
can we even make up an
operation if we Define an operation that
makes sense we could even make one up
and it's going to appear like we may do
that at times but we first have to
Define an operation we often refer to
this let G be a group where sometimes
you'll see
this where that means let G be a group
under addition or consider regular
addition does that make sense we can do
that we have to find find an operation

typically it's
denoted AS
Plus even if it's not the way that we
traditionally think of plus okay let me
ask you a question whenever you look at
the computer whenever you look at how
the processor adds two things in your
computer you type in the calculator 3 +
4 is there some way to get a number
three to pass through a wire and then
the number four to pass through a wire
then all of a sudden you got this camera
inside your processor where this brain
sees that it's a three plus a four and
then it says oh that's seven and then it
pushes a seven through copper wires is
that how that
happens that is how that happens go back
to the hardware class CU I don't think
you're quite there yet right so what
happens is is we represent those values
as a binary stream right that goes into
the processor what turns out that that's
going to stay a binary stream all the
way through that arithmetic is that a
correct and then when it goes back to
the screen that's when we as humans see
the word the letter seven correct we
push a three it sends some bit binary
stream to the processor we say plus4 it
sends that through the through the
copper wires is a series of pulses on
and off and then it goes into the
processor it stays a stream of bits
right and it does something well it
turns out that when we add two bits does
anybody know what that looks like when
we add two bits it looks like the
exclusive or operation where if you have
0 + one it's one 1 plus 0 is one 0 plus
0 is 0o 1+ one that's the problem what
does that become zero but it carries it
over right okay so that's the idea we
can Define addition almost any way that
we want to but we have to make sure it's
consistent and understood by everybody
when we see that symbol all right the
set has to have
closure what do closure mean that under
the operation if you add two things the
result will be another element of of the
set correct there has to be a
notion of something called an
additive
inverse there's an inverse element one
element one element is the inverse let
me ask you guys a question what does it
mean to be an
inverse H what if I
said the additive
inverse we also have to have something
called an
additive
identity these two things kind of go
hand in hand maybe I should have said
identity first but let's go with this
identity if I say an identity is
something where if I take an operation
and I add the identity back I get the
other value automatically so if I take
three and add zero what do I
get no tricks if I take three and add
zero what do I get three if I take four
and add zero what do I get four if I
take zero and add seven to it what do I
get right wouldn't it be nice if we had
a final exam doing that be like I know
how to use the additive identity and if
I take A+ zero I get a right now the
idea is that this can be abstractly a
little bit strange whenever we go into
other sets does that make sense but it's
essentially the one element inside the
set so that way if you take a which is
also an element of the set and you add
this zero element that we refer to as
the additive identity you get that a
back no matter what value is added to it
including itself you get that value back
does that make sense 3 + 0 is 3 4 + 0 is
4 0 + 5 is 5 does that make
sense now the additive inverse every
element has an additive inverse every
element has an additive inverse so that
way when you add the two together an
element and it's additive inverse you
get the additive identity you see how do
you see how complic this sounds way I'm
saying it out loud but let me say this
what do I add to three to get
zero3 so three is the additive identity
of -3 -3 is the additive I'm sorry -3 is
the additive inverse of three three is
the additive inverse of neg3 does
everybody see that raise your hand if
you follow what I'm saying here right so
this side of the room is following
nobody on the left side is okay what is
the additive inverse of six
-6 that's good what is the addtive
inverse
of8 8 right wouldn't it be nice if we
had a final exam doing that right okay
now in each case how do you know what
the additive inverse is of an element
it's whatever you add to it to get zero
does that make sense all

right so we've defined an operation we
have closure we have an additive inverse
and we have an additive identity correct
all right let's see what that buys us
here let's

consider the
real numbers okay let's suppose that we
have
a that's a real
number what is the inverse of
a let's say consider the real numbers
under I forgot to say this under the
operation
of addition every okay with that so
which operation are we considering
addition so a is an element inside the
set of real numbers right what is its
inverse remember this is what we're
doing what is its
inverse that is negative 8 does
everybody see that notation how many you
guys are familiar with that raising to
the negative 1 essentially means inverse
we can apply inverses to functions you
know some functions you can plug it in
there's an inverse function that undoes
it that's a big thing in cryptography of
sorts right it's a big notion in in
hashing where you you don't have an
inverse sometimes or an easy one at
least okay what is the

zero in the real numbers we typically
represent the additive identity as zero
so what is that it's just zero right
this is the additive

identity can we all agree that in this
case 3 inverse is simply -3 how many you
guys see that that notation is fitting
here because when I take 3 inverse plus
three I get the same thing as if I took
three and did three inverse that would
be zero does everybody agree with
that
okay all
right if I add two elements of the real
numbers do I get another real number
back okay so I guess we got our first
example under our belt what about if we
have what if we have the real numbers

under
multiplication
what is the identity in this

case what is the
identity it's one one is the identity
under multiplication 3 * 1 is 3 4 * 1 is
4 1 * 6 is 6 does everybody see the
difference there under multiplic under
addition the identity was Zero under did
I get it right under addition the
identity is zero under multiplication it
is one does everybody see why got a
question

no not under
addition all that's good question so the
question was if you don't mind me as
repeating it the question was is I
thought if I raised 3 to the1 that was
an exponent to where I essentially wrote
one over three correct except what's the
operation I can't consider that because
there is no division in my world I've
only Define the Operation to be one
thing which is addition so what is the
inverse what is the identity under
addition zero so 3 to the -1 means what
is the additive inverse of three which
would be -3 does that make sense you
have to be aware of the inverse what I'm
what I'm trying to get you guys to do is
that you grew up your entire life
including me learning arithmetic on the
real numbers does that make sense we're
now scooting over into a world where
this may be defined differently and you
as Engineers are going to realize that
in the complex field when you get in
electrical engineering or whatever that
square roots you have to be careful the
arithmetic or that imaginary unit
doesn't make sense right you also have
to be aware that sometimes these
operations are actually Boolean
functions correct and then we have to
kind of step away from

that
all right so in this case what do we say
consider the real numbers under the
operation
of addition in this case we're dealing
with the real numbers
under multiplication know what the
operation is and then you'll know what
that negative to the negative one means
sometimes it's only defined in a table
and you can't do arithmetic to get there
does that make sense there are some
groups where you just have to look at an
operation table to actually see what's
happening all right so the identity is
one anytime you multiply something by
one you get the value back
right if a is an element of the real
numbers what is a inverse now we might
look over here to our guy in the green
shirt maybe he'll help us out with that
what is our operation
now yeah 1 over a because this will be 1
over
a because a * 1/ a is is a / a which is

our multiplicative
identity everybody agree with that now
the only exception
is what about this set is this a

group is the real numbers under
multiplication a
group let's take a look up
here in here under under
addition do we have closure are real
numbers closed under
addition okay so we got closure so let's
say this we have
closure do we have an additive
identity under addition what is it zero
we have an
identity do we have an additive inverse
does every element have an additive
inverse does anything fail with that no
so every

element has an inverse so we have a
group we have closure we have our
operation defined we have an identity
every element has an additive inverse so
this is a group does that make sense so
in this case we have a

group down here do we have a
multiplicative
identity we do don't we do we
have does every element have an

inverse if if we Define the real numbers
under multiplication we end up with a
problem and that zero does not have a
what in this case is zero
identity under
multiplication what's the identity under
multiplication one zero is not the
identity in this case and zero does not
have an inverse is there any number we
can multiply Zero by to get
one
so this is a
problem
0o does not have an

inverse we
cannot multiply a
number by zero and

get the
number one so tell me what property we
fail here we fail the property of every
element having an inverse correct does
that make sense so we have under
addition it's a group we have closure
under the operation we have what
else an identity every element has an
inverse such that you add the two
together you'll get the additive
identity
correct the real numbers on the
multiplication fail which
thing one element does not have an
inverse so that means that this whole
thing is not a group so
not a group

okay inverses do because remember what's
the operation you have to take two
elements from the set what's the idea of
an inverse you have to take two elements
from the set multiply them together and
get something else on set because you're
still applying the

operation because we can calculate that
so what is what do I what is the add
what is the multiplicative what is the
multiplicative identity of the real
numbers what number do we multiply by to
get a number back one does that make
sense one is the multiplicative identity
so that means any number we multiply by
one we will get one back except
for zero and that means at zero we don't
have a way of coming up with an inverse
for it does that make sense so because
zero does not have a multiplicative
inverse this whole thing cannot be
a
group is anybody is anybody find this a
little bit
hard it's okay it is hard right let's
let's make sure that we're setting a
good footing for the
class if at the end of the semester this
is what I expect the overwhelmingly vast
majority of you will be successful in
the course is what I expect does that
make sense I'll try my best as long as
you stay connected to me and come to
class and you're monitoring things that
I feel like I've got a good track record
over more than a decade now of teaching
similar courses to this to where I won't
let you fall off the bandwagon or
whatever you want to call it as long as
you're staying in tune with me right
what I would expect though is if you
expect to just sit and kind of watch
this course that that's not going to
work out does that make sense this is
going to be a deep course we're going to
go into mathematical proofs that's half
of what it ises that makes sense kind of
the discrete structures it's about
proving
things here we're having this notion
where we're having to step out out of
our comfort level a bit and go into
things that are not necessarily familiar
to us right and that's what being an
engineer is every day that you going to
work will be something that you're doing
that's not comfortable because
everything that's been comfortable has
already been automated does that make
sense anything that could be done
without much effort has already been
automated by AWS Azure apple and
everybody else right okay so let's make
sure that we got the got the
expectations now I'm not criticizing
anybody if you're if you're struggling
with this because this is hard
would anybody mind if I take the time to
just restate everything that we got so
far would anybody mind let's make sure
that we get it so we're on path right
now to discuss what a group is a group
has properties before we before we talk
about a group we have to make sure that
we have one set okay you find this set
that you want to Define an operation on
it could either be a classic operation
like addition multiplication subtraction
division or you can construct one which
is what we're going to do here in a
minute if you'll bear with me all right

now the
group is a set it has an operation
defined on it in order to be a group it
has to have closure everybody make sure
that you follow what does closure mean
you take two elements from the set apply
that operation you will certainly get
another element from that set does that
make sense it only takes one violation
of that to make closure fail and if it
fa if closure fails we don't have a
group does that make sense if any these
properties fails we don't have it after
you've established that you're dealing
with a set you define an operation and
you have
closure go to the next step let's
actually make this The Next Step here
the additive the identity under that
operation is there an identity such that
if you take an element apply that
operation to this identity you will get
this original ele El back does that make
sense in the case of the real numbers
under addition zero is the additive
identity any number we add to zero we
will get that original number back does
everybody agree with that so do we have
an additive
identity under the real zero that fits
so our next step is does every single
element of the group have an inverse
which means if you take that element add
its inverse to it or whatever the
operation is you will get the
identity

yeah always in fact once you define an
operation don't consider any other
arithmetic that you've known previously
in life the whole universe of what
you're analyzing has one operation and
that's it forget all other arithmetic
that you know about unless it's required
to do the operation but forget it all
otherwise
so under addition with the real numbers
does every number have an additive uh
inverse take the number three what
number do I add to three to get
zero -3 three and3 are additive inverses

and it doesn't matter which one's which
this one's the additive inverse of that
one that one's the additive inverse of
this one does that make sense they
always come in
pairs does four have an additive
inverse -4 okay does zero have have an
additive inverse what is it itself does
that make sense itself so that that's
typically the case right itself now now
we got all that worked out we're going
to go on to the to the next operation so
first of all does everybody agree that
under addition the real numbers have an
operation we have a set there set is
closed on that operation there is an
additive identity there every single
element has an inverse does that make
sense so is that a group
that is a group now let's move on to
multiplication the real numbers under
multiplication now when we talk about
real numbers under their
multiplication we
have do we have a set the set is the
real numbers do we have a well- defined
operation multiplication just like we
traditionally know it do we have an
identity the one element that if we
multiply anything by it we will get that
number back what is the what is the
identity 5 * what = 5 1 3 * what equals

3 1 7 * what equal 7 one does everybody

see that one is certainly the identity
now so we do have a set we do have a
well- defined operation we do have
closure we do have an identity does
every element have an inverse such that
if you take this element and do the
operation with another element you will
definitely get the multiplicative
identity the answer is no what value
fails does zero have an inverse under
multiplication no because what number do
we multiply Zero by to get the identity
which is one can I multiply anything by
zero and get one it's always zero so
this
fails it
fails
because zero does not
have an
inverse we
cannot
multiply
anything by
zero and
get the
identity
which is one okay so what do we know the
real numbers are not a group under which
operation
multiplication just by just by

argument are the real numbers a group
under
division do we have a set yes do we have
an operation that's well- defined yes do
we have closure even
in this case we don't even have closure
why I can't take a number and divide by
zero and get another number in the set
because that's undefined so where where
does this fail with the real numbers
under division it fails just at the
closure level right everybody see that
we don't have a group because it doesn't
even have closure at that point so do we
need to consider anything else if we're
just trying to label a group it only
takes one of these things to fail let me
go ahead and give you the the easiest
thing for one make sure that you have a
set to begin with that's not empty okay
secondly make sure that you have an
operation that you understand and is
well defined like it can't change from
every other element does that make sense
the next thing I would check closure
closure is where things fail pretty easy
what's some of the tricks for finding
closure think of ways that involve zero
zeros are often where problems happen
does that make sense after you determine
that you got closure see if there's an
identity inside of it does that make
sense an identity after you have an
identity then check to make sure every
single element has an inverse why is
that the hardest step because you may
have an infinite set that may be what
infinite in size and there may only be
one element that's causing the problem
which element is typically to be the
Troublemaker something trivial zero is a
good place to start does zero work out
can we make zero work you see how you
have to think out of the box what I'm
trying to make you guys kind of come
around to is how many guys have worked
as an internship
already when you guys are writing code
in Java or you're writing code in C++ or
whatever especially in the
objectoriented languages you may have
had programming assignments where you
just had to sequentially do things like
make it do this iterate through this
Loop when you get into your job you'll
start making abstract classes that can
handle almost any kind of element do
some sort of function return an
arbitrary one does that make sense so
like if you're a maybe a web designer
even web design even typescript allows
for such things as this where you you
could actually create things you could
pass in a URL link you could pass in a
feature toggle you could pass in this
and it has to recognize what it has
whether or not it can do anything on it
handle all the error cases and return
back something that Mak sense in the
context of what you got does that make
sense in that case we're talking about
making code portable you have to start
thinking outside the box of what you
traditionally think of in sequential
programming and usual arithmetic does
that make sense all right
it's a hot day for this kind of topic
don't you guys think anybody else in
here feel like wow this is deep for a
hot classroom right so the next time I
know you guys really hang on to my life
hack advice here what are you guys going
to do the next time you're waiting on a
table at that really nice restaurant
with your significant other you're going
to pull out a napkin and do
what come up with sets with an operation
ask each other if it's a group right no
extra charge for that
advice all right so we've already
determine
that division doesn't work for a group
under real numbers all let's see what
about the natural numbers are the
natural numbers a group under

addition are the natural numbers a group
under addition we've already got
somebody cast and vot I'm going to come
to you here just in a second so are we
got another vult are the naturals a

group
under addition in the traditional way
that we know
it all right so I've got some call outs
here let me walk you through and then as
soon as you guys hit the point where you
think this doesn't work I want you to
give me a shout out okay first do we
have a set that's not empty Are there
natural numbers cardinality is not zero
for sure right
secondly do we have an operation defined
that's understandable and we understand
what's happening usual addition we got
that correct close
is the naturals closed under addition I
think we tackled this last time if you
take any two natural numbers add them
together do you get another one
back okay what about an identity do the
natural numbers have an identity we've
got the call out what number do I what
natural number do I add by to always get
the result back or to get the original
back what number would I have to add to
one to get one
back zero but zero is not a natural
number so what do we say here it is a
set check it is an
operation there is an operation rather
check we do we have
closure check now what about an

identity
no it fails that does everybody see why
what number do you add to a natural
number to get that number back it would
have to be zero but zero is not a
zero is not a natural number now if you

guys start googling things I talk about
in class I want everybody to realize
that and I have to say the engineers are
kind of bad about this mathematicians we
are very we are very stuck on calling a
natural number starting at one
occasionally you'll see some Engineers
that will say well we kind of need zero
so let's define the natural numbers to
be all these numbers and let's add zero
to it to make sure it's there in that
case what you should do is do the
naturals Union the set containing the
zero or just simply call it the whole
numbers right anyway so the natural
numbers are a group under
addition no it fails the identity

test okay well Colin and some and some
other what's your name I know
Colin dantree dantree Colin
has shined on this example right
so I'm going to pitch back to these
folks here I'm going to say you know
what I can fix these problems that you
claim that I got and I'm going to ask
this question guess what question I'm
going to ask
now all right you guys think about it
then all right
are the whole numbers a

group
under addition
are the
whole maybe I didn't write this very
well are the whole
numbers a group under addition are the
whole numbers a group under
addition okay
well look the wheels are turning I can
see it correctly these two folks said
there's no inverse there's no sorry
there's no identity that I fix that with
this
set all right well let's see do we have
uh a set that's
nonempty yes do we have
closure yes do we
have what was the next
one an
operation check do we have what's the
next one identity did we solve that one

why
because under addition zero is the
addtive identity we fixed that with this
said didn't we ah now next one do we
have
inverses what I'm doing the best I can
to make you folks happy and you guys are
saying no one more time why is
that what number do I add to one to get
the identity which is

zero negative one but is negative one an
element inside this group inside this
set no so it
fails
inverses there is everybody starting to
catch on this a little bit more now it
fails inverses why 1 + -1 is 0 but -1 is

not in the set of whole numbers every
okay with
that all right maybe I'll verbally say
it out loud are the natural numbers
closed under multiplication in this case
do we have a
set do we have an operation do we have
closure yes all three of those yes yes
so far do we have an identity one is the
identity so good we're looking good so
far and then we stall out because why we
don't have inverses with the natural
numbers under multiplication because
what number do I multiply two by to get
one one over two but that is not a
natural number correct so it fails that
does everybody see how we do this what
about the holes are the holes a group
under multiplication actually the same
argument holes doesn't we got we got
problems there too all right well we
might as well head on here and see
what's else is happening what about the
the set of
integers a
group
under
addition who here wants to tackle this
for me is a set of integers a group
under
addition well we got some confident
folks let's make sure that they walk
through the steps I'm sure they did but
let's do it together as a class first
and foremost look at everybody smiling
everybody's excited make sure you're
smiling yeah there you
go
good good
okay good they're smiling right all
right this the integers a group under
addition do we have a set that's not
empty do we have an operation that's
well defined do we
have closure if I add two integers do I
get another
integer yep if I do I have an identity
what number do I add and I get the
number back if attitude so what do I add
to two to get two zero is zero an

integer yes good we're on a roll with
this one let's see what about so we got
everything up to an identity inverses
under addition what's the inverse of a
number to what number do I add to two to
get
zero is it in the set yeah it is both
two and negative -2 are in the set what
about
three3 what about 100 what do I add to
100 to get
zero that's in there now what I always
say I always check zero because that's
sometimes where the problem happens what
about zero what do I add to zero to get
zero not too hard be nice if we had a
final exam doing that right is there any
reason that anybody can think of why
this is not a group under addition think
of all those Edge cases as an
engineer by the way for those of you
guys that have written code I want you
guys to realize something it's rarely
ever the core of the problems that
anybody will ever have trouble writing
code for does that make sense rarely
ever is there a problem writing code the
true task of an engineer is to identify
the edge cases where things go to hell
right or there could be a division by
zero problem or there could be an
operation being happening on something
that doesn't exist a network failure or
a partial Network failure a delayed
response or something async that causes
a deadlock with something or a
synchronous function that causes a
deadlock because they simultaneously
wait and it locks a machine up right
think of the edge cases in this case I
think zero we've covered it so in this
case I feel comfortable saying that yes
this is a group under addition raise
your hand if you feel okay with that all
right
so now that everybody's comfortable and
everybody's got over this original panic
and everybody's like wow this guy I
don't know what his point of all this is
let me go ahead and let's go down the
rabbit hole a little bit
deeper
consider the set s which is

true and
false consider a set that just has the
Boolean values true and false anybody
familiar with those can we go ahead and
just abbreviate these as true sorry can
we go ahead and abbreviate these as true
and false is that okay why not right how
about would anybody mind if I go with
kind of a traditional programming
language approach and let's just call
this anybody got an
idea zero and one is that okay as though
we're looking at a copper wire where the
voltage going high and to ground back
and forth right so we have true and
false does everybody agree that I'm
going to consider this a set of either
one or zero one being true zero being
false every all clear on that and let's
define the
function
define
addition to be the exclusive

or
operation I want everybody to be quite
clear here does everybody agree that I
have now redefined Plus
as something
else how many you guys have had C++
programming just because we typically
Define I mean just because we typically
Define addition to be one way can you
actually create a class that has
matrices can you add
matrices can you add two sets I mean you
could do that maybe you could just
combine together maybe think of it as a
union perhaps you can Define addition of
anything you want as long as it's clear
what you're doing right and C+ plus has
anybody ever heard of operator
overloading raise your hand if you've
heard of that we can redefine addition
to be some other things where we could
take a matrix that's a class and a class
and another Matrix and add them together
and have a new class that's that we
could overload the addition function
right or the addition
operation now consider the set true or
false what the only two elements inside
my
set true and false what is my

operation
the exclusive or how many of you folks
are familiar with
that would it hurt if I go over it real
fast to make sure everybody's on board
how many of you remember back when you
were younger and you had the
multiplication tables where you had like
1 through 12 here and then you had 1
through 12 up here and then you kind of
looked inside there to see what 6 * 7
was you look at the intersection and
there you got it does anybody remember
that little table right you do not
remember that or you do you do okay you
do okay great so we got this table I'm
going to make an operation table out of
this so let's look at the operation
table where I have 0 1 0 1 and I'm going
to say this is my new addition operation
by the way I defined
it
now 0 plus 0 in the way I've defined it
is
what exclusive or it follows very
closely the or operation so if it's
false and false what do I get
here
false if one of them if it's false and
true what do I
get
true if I have true and false what do I
get now typically under the or statement
if either one of them is true that's
enough to make it true the exclusive or
takes it one step
further except what is exclusive means
what does it mean to be mutually
exclusive you can only have one or the
other right exclusive or is kind of like
a M exclusive or where like it follows
the ore operation until both of them are
true and then it reverts back to
what false that is the exclusive or for
those of you guys that are in
programming languages typically that's
denoted by the carrot symbol how many
you guys have ever used it
before this is actually the way things
are added inside of a processor the
exclusive or operation right this is how
when is anybody ever had a circuit class
where you build an Adder an Adder
circuit wasn't that essentially
following an exclusive of or except it
would carry the digit over right okay so
if I'm not making sense by saying all
that it's okay we won't need it but what
is my operation for one what if I take 0
+ 0 what do I get zero what if I take 0
+ 1 what do I get one what if I take 1
plus
0o one what if I do 1 plus one zero so
you see how we're kind of just on the
edge of being a little bit abstract here
right does everybody see that little
abstraction we got doesn't follow
doesn't make sense in the way that we
were taught arithmetic growing up but
it's the way that we have it is this a
group number one do we Sorry do we have
a
set do we have a set is it non-empty do
I have two elements in there true and
false good do I have an operation that
makes sense actually this is a complete
operation because I gave you the table
does everybody see that every
combination is labeled in that table
there we have two elements and we show
pairwise how they work and so this is is
a complete table so we have yes an
operation that's completely defined on
all
elements what about
closure if you make an operation table
and you look inside the table does
anybody see in the body of the table any
values that are not inside the set do
you guys agree that that's what that
mean does anybody look in the table do
you see anything in there that's not in
their set so what does that
automatically mean we have closure good
now what about an inverse sorry I keep
getting these out of order what about an
identity now this is where we're a
little bit abstract is there a number or
is there a value in there where it
appears that anytime it's paired up with
something else it appears to return back
that original value can I give you guys
a hint if you ever make an operation
table look down a column if it looks
like a column is identical to the labels
you've identified an identity does
everybody see my label right here on the
left hand side 01 does everybody
everybody see I'm going to make a little
dots everybody see how that's my label
column does everybody see that this one
mirrors
it that implies an identity right does
everybody see that it's true along the
top as well here's my labels table and
right here is my identity rule in both
cases what appears to be the identity
here false right is that true false
false appear be the
identity let it sink in make sure I'm
saying it right it's false an identity
here if I take that table okay what if I
take false and add true to it under this
operation table what do I get true what
if I take true and I add false to it
what do I get true so zero is the f is
the additive identity here right yes it
is is

zero okay we have an identity now let me
say one more thing
inverses it's hard to see here isn't it
does that make
sense does everything have an inverse M
meaning is there something I could add
to it to go back to the addtive
identity what do what do I add to zero
to get zero based on this table what do
I add to zero to get
zero zero so that works out there's only
one other element in the set right does
everybody agree with that what do I add
to one to get zero one does everybody
see how they're what we call this if I'm
not mistaken are things that were called
involutions where they're own inverses
does that make sense every okay with
that so we do have inverses what did we
conclude
here
that this is
a it is a group and then we all scream
out yes we've identified a set that's
abstract and it is I love the excitement
you need to be up here in the a roll
right I like lots of excitement Haley
what do you think about this excited
great great he oh okay you're asking
question
okay yes every element has to have an
inverse in fact you'll find out that
it's Unique to every element does -3
work as an inverse for any other value
out than three under addition of real
numbers so you'll find out that not only
are inverses exist but they're unique to
the element they're pawise unique to
each other does that make sense so every
element has to have an inverse and in
this case do you see that it's so
trivial that it's almost hard what do I
add zero what do I add to zero to get
zero under the table zero
what do I add to one to get zero one
does everybody see that
great well it turns out that how many
you guys have ever heard of the modu
modular
arithmetic this is essentially the table
that you would get if you take numbers
zero and one add them together and then
take the remainder the modulus remainder
of two what is 0 + 0 0 what is 0 + 1 1
what is 1 + 0 1 what is 1 + 1 that is
two but the remainder of two when you
divide by two is zero this is exclusive
or is actually modular arithmetic mod
two how many guys see that
now what is one divided two what is one
what is the quotient of 1 divid two 0
with a remainder of one
right what is 1 + 1 that's two what is
the quotient of two / two that's one but
the remainder is zero so effectively
that table is the set of remainders
whenever you do the addition arithmetic
with modular
2 that make sense okay very
important so it is a group
yes what about how about we do this one
what about s being the set of values
false and true
under the
and
operation under the and operation who
knows what the classical symbol is in
who knows what the classic symbol is for
and double and S was exclusive or was
that kind of carrot looking thing on the
number six there right typically all
right so let's go ahead and do a truth
table we call it right so I'm going to
make this
table uh I'm going to say that our
addition
is the and
operation we got our table the and
operation means that it has it can only
be true if both inputs are true does
everybody remember that from the
programming language if we have an if
condition on our statement if we use a
double Ampersand it must be the case
that these two things are both high in
order for it to be high on the output

right we did exclusive or before yeah
exclusive or where we we essentially
have exclusivity where it's follows the
or operation until both are set then it
goes this one good way is if you have if
you're ever using exclusive or exclusive
or is a way to where you can flip if you
have an input that you need to negate
sometimes but you can only pass in one
more input you could Define it to be
exclusive ore whenever you pass this one
in turn on the negate feature make the
exclusive or and it'll flip this origin
B in it's a trick that's common whenever
you have kind of restricted inputs of
sorts if that makes sense if I put in
zero and zero in an and operation I get
back zero good are you like a Bulan
expert oh well awesome even better I
like that what about zero and one we'll
just let we'll just keep on with you
zero okay what about one and zero oh
good what about one and
one okay so is this a group I tell you
what can I get you guys all of you are
sitting at a table could I get all of
you to sit there and discuss whether
this is a group or
not okay let's go through our things for
one who votes that we do have a set
that's non
empty do we have a set that's non empty
we do by the way why do we have to have
a set that's nonempty does anybody
remember what I said about the empty set
no matter what everything
is true about the empty set it doesn't
matter what goes on if you have an empty
set you could prove that there's a green
eyed line in there if you if you follow
a certain procedure right everything is
true about a set that contains nothing
so why do I have to say it has to be a
non-empty set is an empty set true is an
empty set a
group make Cas isly true because you
can't show there's anything in there
that fails it right all right so is it a
non-empty set yes does it contain a
well-defined operation we've completely
defined it by giving EXP the table of
all the interactions right so yes we do
have an operation that's well defined on
all elements what about do we have do we
have uh
closure that all you have to do is
visually inspect the table do you see
anything in there that's outside the
set01 so we do have
closure right anytime I say we have
closure I feel like we're recovering
from something sad or something but what
about next the next one was an identity
okay now this one serves a discussion
but I don't know what our result will be
let's let's go through it what do I add
what is the identity is there anything
in here that whenever I pair it with
this I will always get the other value
back what is our
conversation look through the columns
and if you see a column that matches the
label column perfectly on both the
horizontal row and the column you do
have a
what the number one is the ident here
right does everybody see that what is 1
+
0 0 what is 1 + one one what is 0 + 1 0o

what is 1+
0 zero do you see how one is acting like
an identity go down through there does
everybody see a column that mirrors the
label
column does everybody agree that this is
our label column and that this mirrors
it perfectly and and if we look at the
horizontal row it's perfectly as well so
do we have an identity yes it is the
number one is the
identity now what about inverses
whoops do not assume that that was the
right answer because I did that what
about
inverses huh let's look at the table we
got to vote for no here let's see if
this is right who else votes no we don't
have an
inverse what do I add under the and
operation what do I add to zero What's
the
identity one what do I add to zero to
get
one notice that if zero is present it's
zero no matter what both row and column
raise your hand if you see
that what do we say there is no

inverse for zero under the and operation
if you have a zero it makes it zero
there is no operation that will get you
to the number one there right how you
guys understand this example so is this
a
group it is not a
group it is not a
group okay now let me give you guys this
let me give you guys a thought
yeah
yeah yes you have when you're talking
about identity if you have an identity
it means that you have a column that
would mirror the label column right if
you think about what that's implying
it's not it's not nothing deep it's
actually just kind of straightforward
like what do you get to that this well
if it's in that column that's the
identity right so if you have so here's
another extent if you have a column that
look look at the columns if you have a
column that perfectly matches the the
row column which is this one it means
that must be the
identity take a look up here do we have
have one that perfectly matched the
label column it's this one so which one
is the
identity this one does that make sense
all right now we're at the point where I
feel like this is as far as I want to go
into groups let's go into what we call
the abstract notion does everybody agree
that when we have a set of numbers that
we grew up knowing how to add them and
multiply them does everybody agree that
the real numbers are closed under
addition but they are not
closed
under well let's say we we have sets
let's back up does everybody agree that
under addition the natural numbers are

closed right does everybody agree that
the integers are a group under addition
but they are not a group under
multiplication does that make sense so
here let's introduce the idea of a
ring a ring is defined where we have to
have
both addition
and
multiplication here's the
rules
R is a
set
R is a
group
under
addition
R
needs an
identity under

multiplication n
r let's make sure we get this

NR plus I'm sorry
multiplication
distributes
over
addition by the way let's suppose this
does everybody remember this that if I I
have a * b + C does everybody remember
what parentheses means parentheses means
do that first if you have a
ring and now remember plus and
multiplication are defined abstractly
here but we can represent it just in
typical States if I take a set and I
first add B and C together and then I
take that value and multiply it with a
does everybody see what I'm saying there
I first add B and C together under the
ring
operation then I take that value I
multiply it by a with multiplication
under the ring that would be the same
thing as if I took a multiplied it with
B
plus a and multiplying it with C does
everybody remember how this distributes
just in our regular arithmetic as we
grew up knowing it does everybody agree
with

this
oh this is
multiplication the the dot sorry that's
a good point multiplication distributes
over addition okay now what I want us to
consider that I want you guys to go home
and consider is
consider
s where 0er and
one are elements of the set I want you
guys to be clear about something there's
one more thing there's actually one more
condition here an R that's not true for
all sets it needs to be something we
call a billion but I won't hold you to
that one a billion means that the
elements commute matrices can form a
group and notice that matrices don't
commute the order of operation the if
you add if you multiply two matrices
it's different depending on which way
you multiply them a * B is different
than b * a we'll leave you to that one
let's define s to be the set of values
true or false addition ition is the
exclusive or function that I defined
earlier multiplication is the and
operation I defined
earlier let's see if you guys can make
sure that you understand that this is a
ring this is a
ring

specifically this is
gf2 it's the gawa FI of two elements and
this is how
computers
typically do

arithmetic in multiplication in binary
how does how how does it work it follows
the and operation how does a addition
work in binary it follows the exclusive
or operation does that make sense raise
your hand if you follow what I've tried
to arrive at here is kind of the finale
how do computers G
gf2 how do computers add they follow

the
no so we breaking up the ring exor how
do computers add how do typically binary
devices add they follow the exclusive or
operation how do computers typically
multiply they follow the and operation
together just like we have like real
numbers where we can add and multiply
them to do all the arithmetic that we
need don't computers need to have that
same completeness to where it has a
bitstream that it may need to add and
multiply in order for everything in the
world to work out the conversion of
bases the ability to to work no matter
what we're doing under you have to have
a ring to find the integers alone aren't
complete enough the real numbers are
complete enough does that make sense
everybody needs to realize that under a
ring inverses are not necessary under
the multiplication does that make sense
what's the only group it's a group under
addition the only conditions we have on
the multiplication is that it
distributes over the
addition and we have an identity
right is that okay in more abstract
mathematics they'll dismiss one or two
of those things but that's for the most
part it on the next class if you guys
don't mind on the next lecture I'm going
to prove to you guys all the step have
to show that gf2 is a ring and then
we're done with this entire topic final
okay does anybody feel like this is just
too
terrible so what next next lecture we're
going to do what we're going to
basically show that gf2 fits this
definition and then we're done with it
okay all right no
problem
all right so today's lecture we're going
to cover abstract mathematics the last
lecture covered what operations on a set
specifically we had one thing that we
were covering and it was
called closure who in here could
summarize closure for

me that is that that is stated as best
anybody could State good job when you
take two elements of the set you
performal operation and so far all we
did was just addition subtraction
multiplication division right you take
two objects in the set apply that
operation to them you should get back
another element of the set correct now
does that mean that you pick two and it
goes in there or does it have to mean
that for any two that you do it has to
map back to Something in the set does
everybody see that to show that
something is not closed all you had to
do is show a counter one counter example
where it failed right we said that the
real numbers is not closed under
division because of one element what is
that zero can you define can you divide
anything by
Zero no what does that mean that means
undefined error that means you can't
consider that right don't say that
that's Infinity because that's when
you're talking about limit where that's
happening something over zero including
0 divid 0 is undefined so out of that
entire very dense infinite set one
element causes it to fail does that make
sense so to show something is not closed
you only have to show one counter
example do you have to give two do you
have to give three do you have to give
an explanation you just show one counter
example where it fails to show that it
is closed is sometimes a bit hard
because you have to make an abstract
statement to where you're not using
specific values but you're using a
construction that represent any
arbitrary two values you do that
construction and you show that it's in
the set does that make sense so how many
of you people remember that last time we
said why is it that the rationals are
closed under addition and we kind of
made the argument that it works for
subtraction too why is it closed under
addition remember what we said we picked
two elements represented them as
fractions we described that this is a
fraction two integers we found a common
denominator kind of abstractly added
them together made an argument that it's
still a fraction of two integers where
the denominator is not zero and so it
must have been another rational number
can anybody just by quickly me saying it
does everybody remember that what I
would expect is something like that to
may have to be done on a test everybody
gets a little upset about that because a
lot of you have already sent me a slack
notification saying I don't know if I
could have come off of that on the fly
on my own
fortunately I think as an engineer I'm
more interested about what you can do
when you have solid time to think about
it rather than what you can do on the
Fly uh personally I like driving across
bridges that have been well thought out
instead of somebody done the back of
envelope type calculations on it right
so what I would expect is if I have
things like that on the exam either the
entire exam will be take home or
there'll be parts of it to where you get
to take that home does that make sense
and work on together so let me tell you
a classic one I showed you how to do the
how to show that the even numbers are
closed under
addition are the odd numbers closed
under
addition 3 + 3 is six it's okay if you
noed yes that's okay six what about
multiplication if you multiply any two
odd numbers do you get another odd
number before you answer do do two of
them together before you 5 * 5 is 25 3 *
3 is nine 1 * 1 is okay so before we
answer we all an agreement that probably
the odd numbers are closed under
multiplication right because you
multiply two odds you get another odd
the problem is let's say the positive
odd numbers let's ring that the problem
is is that unless you want to go through
and write out every possible pair of
that entire infinite set which let's be
clear you can't do that right you're
going to have to make some sort of
argument so if you really want to know
how to prepare for the test I would walk
into the test knowing how to do
something like showing the odd numbers
are closed under
multiplication how are what is an odd
number we said all even numbers have the
form 2K + 1 where K is a whole
number sorry I just gave away I just
gave it away I gave it away didn't I
what are the even numbers 2K where K is
a whole number correct the odd numbers
are 2K + one where K is a whole number
right so if you were to take that
argument where you take two odd numbers
represent them as a form where they are
2K + 1 and some other number 2K + 1 show
them that you add together that you
still have something two * something
plus something else you'll be set does
that make sense and you'll be able to
demonstrate that so that'd be what
something I'd expect you to be able to
do all right so everybody's tired of me
talking everybody's excited about this
new Venture into abstract mathematics
I'm excited for you guys to be excited
about it so let's go a and get started
so we already mentioned that we have
things that have closure right well it
turns out that there's a few more
properties that we could actually add to
these sets to where if they meet all
these extra new properties they form a
very powerful Concept in mathematics in
that we're going to extend this into the
notion of what we know as addition
multiplication so that's what we're
heading we're going to abstractly Define
what it means to mathematically say you
can add and multiply at the same time on
a set okay but we're going to have to
take some some minor steps on this

first let's discuss what a group
is I need to go down on
so let's define a group a
group G so let G be a group oh

transition the screen
over so we could say let G be a group
okay what does it mean to be G well
first we have
to
Define an operation
just like we did last time can we even
can we even make up an
operation if we Define an operation that
makes sense we could even make one up
and it's going to appear like we may do
that at times but we first have to
Define an operation we often refer to
this let G be a group where sometimes
you'll see
this where that means let G be a group
under addition or consider regular
addition does that make sense we can do
that we have to find find an operation

typically it's
denoted AS
Plus even if it's not the way that we
traditionally think of plus okay let me
ask you a question whenever you look at
the computer whenever you look at how
the processor adds two things in your
computer you type in the calculator 3 +
4 is there some way to get a number
three to pass through a wire and then
the number four to pass through a wire
then all of a sudden you got this camera
inside your processor where this brain
sees that it's a three plus a four and
then it says oh that's seven and then it
pushes a seven through copper wires is
that how that
happens that is how that happens go back
to the hardware class CU I don't think
you're quite there yet right so what
happens is is we represent those values
as a binary stream right that goes into
the processor what turns out that that's
going to stay a binary stream all the
way through that arithmetic is that a
correct and then when it goes back to
the screen that's when we as humans see
the word the letter seven correct we
push a three it sends some bit binary
stream to the processor we say plus4 it
sends that through the through the
copper wires is a series of pulses on
and off and then it goes into the
processor it stays a stream of bits
right and it does something well it
turns out that when we add two bits does
anybody know what that looks like when
we add two bits it looks like the
exclusive or operation where if you have
0 + one it's one 1 plus 0 is one 0 plus
0 is 0o 1+ one that's the problem what
does that become zero but it carries it
over right okay so that's the idea we
can Define addition almost any way that
we want to but we have to make sure it's
consistent and understood by everybody
when we see that symbol all right the
set has to have
closure what do closure mean that under
the operation if you add two things the
result will be another element of of the
set correct there has to be a
notion of something called an
additive
inverse there's an inverse element one
element one element is the inverse let
me ask you guys a question what does it
mean to be an
inverse H what if I
said the additive
inverse we also have to have something
called an
additive
identity these two things kind of go
hand in hand maybe I should have said
identity first but let's go with this
identity if I say an identity is
something where if I take an operation
and I add the identity back I get the
other value automatically so if I take
three and add zero what do I
get no tricks if I take three and add
zero what do I get three if I take four
and add zero what do I get four if I
take zero and add seven to it what do I
get right wouldn't it be nice if we had
a final exam doing that be like I know
how to use the additive identity and if
I take A+ zero I get a right now the
idea is that this can be abstractly a
little bit strange whenever we go into
other sets does that make sense but it's
essentially the one element inside the
set so that way if you take a which is
also an element of the set and you add
this zero element that we refer to as
the additive identity you get that a
back no matter what value is added to it
including itself you get that value back
does that make sense 3 + 0 is 3 4 + 0 is
4 0 + 5 is 5 does that make
sense now the additive inverse every
element has an additive inverse every
element has an additive inverse so that
way when you add the two together an
element and it's additive inverse you
get the additive identity you see how do
you see how complic this sounds way I'm
saying it out loud but let me say this
what do I add to three to get
zero3 so three is the additive identity
of -3 -3 is the additive I'm sorry -3 is
the additive inverse of three three is
the additive inverse of neg3 does
everybody see that raise your hand if
you follow what I'm saying here right so
this side of the room is following
nobody on the left side is okay what is
the additive inverse of six
-6 that's good what is the addtive
inverse
of8 8 right wouldn't it be nice if we
had a final exam doing that right okay
now in each case how do you know what
the additive inverse is of an element
it's whatever you add to it to get zero
does that make sense all

right so we've defined an operation we
have closure we have an additive inverse
and we have an additive identity correct
all right let's see what that buys us
here let's

consider the
real numbers okay let's suppose that we
have
a that's a real
number what is the inverse of
a let's say consider the real numbers
under I forgot to say this under the
operation
of addition every okay with that so
which operation are we considering
addition so a is an element inside the
set of real numbers right what is its
inverse remember this is what we're
doing what is its
inverse that is negative 8 does
everybody see that notation how many you
guys are familiar with that raising to
the negative 1 essentially means inverse
we can apply inverses to functions you
know some functions you can plug it in
there's an inverse function that undoes
it that's a big thing in cryptography of
sorts right it's a big notion in in
hashing where you you don't have an
inverse sometimes or an easy one at
least okay what is the

zero in the real numbers we typically
represent the additive identity as zero
so what is that it's just zero right
this is the additive

identity can we all agree that in this
case 3 inverse is simply -3 how many you
guys see that that notation is fitting
here because when I take 3 inverse plus
three I get the same thing as if I took
three and did three inverse that would
be zero does everybody agree with
that
okay all
right if I add two elements of the real
numbers do I get another real number
back okay so I guess we got our first
example under our belt what about if we
have what if we have the real numbers

under
multiplication
what is the identity in this

case what is the
identity it's one one is the identity
under multiplication 3 * 1 is 3 4 * 1 is
4 1 * 6 is 6 does everybody see the
difference there under multiplic under
addition the identity was Zero under did
I get it right under addition the
identity is zero under multiplication it
is one does everybody see why got a
question

no not under
addition all that's good question so the
question was if you don't mind me as
repeating it the question was is I
thought if I raised 3 to the1 that was
an exponent to where I essentially wrote
one over three correct except what's the
operation I can't consider that because
there is no division in my world I've
only Define the Operation to be one
thing which is addition so what is the
inverse what is the identity under
addition zero so 3 to the -1 means what
is the additive inverse of three which
would be -3 does that make sense you
have to be aware of the inverse what I'm
what I'm trying to get you guys to do is
that you grew up your entire life
including me learning arithmetic on the
real numbers does that make sense we're
now scooting over into a world where
this may be defined differently and you
as Engineers are going to realize that
in the complex field when you get in
electrical engineering or whatever that
square roots you have to be careful the
arithmetic or that imaginary unit
doesn't make sense right you also have
to be aware that sometimes these
operations are actually Boolean
functions correct and then we have to
kind of step away from

that
all right so in this case what do we say
consider the real numbers under the
operation
of addition in this case we're dealing
with the real numbers
under multiplication know what the
operation is and then you'll know what
that negative to the negative one means
sometimes it's only defined in a table
and you can't do arithmetic to get there
does that make sense there are some
groups where you just have to look at an
operation table to actually see what's
happening all right so the identity is
one anytime you multiply something by
one you get the value back
right if a is an element of the real
numbers what is a inverse now we might
look over here to our guy in the green
shirt maybe he'll help us out with that
what is our operation
now yeah 1 over a because this will be 1
over
a because a * 1/ a is is a / a which is

our multiplicative
identity everybody agree with that now
the only exception
is what about this set is this a

group is the real numbers under
multiplication a
group let's take a look up
here in here under under
addition do we have closure are real
numbers closed under
addition okay so we got closure so let's
say this we have
closure do we have an additive
identity under addition what is it zero
we have an
identity do we have an additive inverse
does every element have an additive
inverse does anything fail with that no
so every

element has an inverse so we have a
group we have closure we have our
operation defined we have an identity
every element has an additive inverse so
this is a group does that make sense so
in this case we have a

group down here do we have a
multiplicative
identity we do don't we do we
have does every element have an

inverse if if we Define the real numbers
under multiplication we end up with a
problem and that zero does not have a
what in this case is zero
identity under
multiplication what's the identity under
multiplication one zero is not the
identity in this case and zero does not
have an inverse is there any number we
can multiply Zero by to get
one
so this is a
problem
0o does not have an

inverse we
cannot multiply a
number by zero and

get the
number one so tell me what property we
fail here we fail the property of every
element having an inverse correct does
that make sense so we have under
addition it's a group we have closure
under the operation we have what
else an identity every element has an
inverse such that you add the two
together you'll get the additive
identity
correct the real numbers on the
multiplication fail which
thing one element does not have an
inverse so that means that this whole
thing is not a group so
not a group

okay inverses do because remember what's
the operation you have to take two
elements from the set what's the idea of
an inverse you have to take two elements
from the set multiply them together and
get something else on set because you're
still applying the

operation because we can calculate that
so what is what do I what is the add
what is the multiplicative what is the
multiplicative identity of the real
numbers what number do we multiply by to
get a number back one does that make
sense one is the multiplicative identity
so that means any number we multiply by
one we will get one back except
for zero and that means at zero we don't
have a way of coming up with an inverse
for it does that make sense so because
zero does not have a multiplicative
inverse this whole thing cannot be
a
group is anybody is anybody find this a
little bit
hard it's okay it is hard right let's
let's make sure that we're setting a
good footing for the
class if at the end of the semester this
is what I expect the overwhelmingly vast
majority of you will be successful in
the course is what I expect does that
make sense I'll try my best as long as
you stay connected to me and come to
class and you're monitoring things that
I feel like I've got a good track record
over more than a decade now of teaching
similar courses to this to where I won't
let you fall off the bandwagon or
whatever you want to call it as long as
you're staying in tune with me right
what I would expect though is if you
expect to just sit and kind of watch
this course that that's not going to
work out does that make sense this is
going to be a deep course we're going to
go into mathematical proofs that's half
of what it ises that makes sense kind of
the discrete structures it's about
proving
things here we're having this notion
where we're having to step out out of
our comfort level a bit and go into
things that are not necessarily familiar
to us right and that's what being an
engineer is every day that you going to
work will be something that you're doing
that's not comfortable because
everything that's been comfortable has
already been automated does that make
sense anything that could be done
without much effort has already been
automated by AWS Azure apple and
everybody else right okay so let's make
sure that we got the got the
expectations now I'm not criticizing
anybody if you're if you're struggling
with this because this is hard
would anybody mind if I take the time to
just restate everything that we got so
far would anybody mind let's make sure
that we get it so we're on path right
now to discuss what a group is a group
has properties before we before we talk
about a group we have to make sure that
we have one set okay you find this set
that you want to Define an operation on
it could either be a classic operation
like addition multiplication subtraction
division or you can construct one which
is what we're going to do here in a
minute if you'll bear with me all right

now the
group is a set it has an operation
defined on it in order to be a group it
has to have closure everybody make sure
that you follow what does closure mean
you take two elements from the set apply
that operation you will certainly get
another element from that set does that
make sense it only takes one violation
of that to make closure fail and if it
fa if closure fails we don't have a
group does that make sense if any these
properties fails we don't have it after
you've established that you're dealing
with a set you define an operation and
you have
closure go to the next step let's
actually make this The Next Step here
the additive the identity under that
operation is there an identity such that
if you take an element apply that
operation to this identity you will get
this original ele El back does that make
sense in the case of the real numbers
under addition zero is the additive
identity any number we add to zero we
will get that original number back does
everybody agree with that so do we have
an additive
identity under the real zero that fits
so our next step is does every single
element of the group have an inverse
which means if you take that element add
its inverse to it or whatever the
operation is you will get the
identity

yeah always in fact once you define an
operation don't consider any other
arithmetic that you've known previously
in life the whole universe of what
you're analyzing has one operation and
that's it forget all other arithmetic
that you know about unless it's required
to do the operation but forget it all
otherwise
so under addition with the real numbers
does every number have an additive uh
inverse take the number three what
number do I add to three to get
zero -3 three and3 are additive inverses

and it doesn't matter which one's which
this one's the additive inverse of that
one that one's the additive inverse of
this one does that make sense they
always come in
pairs does four have an additive
inverse -4 okay does zero have have an
additive inverse what is it itself does
that make sense itself so that that's
typically the case right itself now now
we got all that worked out we're going
to go on to the to the next operation so
first of all does everybody agree that
under addition the real numbers have an
operation we have a set there set is
closed on that operation there is an
additive identity there every single
element has an inverse does that make
sense so is that a group
that is a group now let's move on to
multiplication the real numbers under
multiplication now when we talk about
real numbers under their
multiplication we
have do we have a set the set is the
real numbers do we have a well- defined
operation multiplication just like we
traditionally know it do we have an
identity the one element that if we
multiply anything by it we will get that
number back what is the what is the
identity 5 * what = 5 1 3 * what equals

3 1 7 * what equal 7 one does everybody

see that one is certainly the identity
now so we do have a set we do have a
well- defined operation we do have
closure we do have an identity does
every element have an inverse such that
if you take this element and do the
operation with another element you will
definitely get the multiplicative
identity the answer is no what value
fails does zero have an inverse under
multiplication no because what number do
we multiply Zero by to get the identity
which is one can I multiply anything by
zero and get one it's always zero so
this
fails it
fails
because zero does not
have an
inverse we
cannot
multiply
anything by
zero and
get the
identity
which is one okay so what do we know the
real numbers are not a group under which
operation
multiplication just by just by

argument are the real numbers a group
under
division do we have a set yes do we have
an operation that's well- defined yes do
we have closure even
in this case we don't even have closure
why I can't take a number and divide by
zero and get another number in the set
because that's undefined so where where
does this fail with the real numbers
under division it fails just at the
closure level right everybody see that
we don't have a group because it doesn't
even have closure at that point so do we
need to consider anything else if we're
just trying to label a group it only
takes one of these things to fail let me
go ahead and give you the the easiest
thing for one make sure that you have a
set to begin with that's not empty okay
secondly make sure that you have an
operation that you understand and is
well defined like it can't change from
every other element does that make sense
the next thing I would check closure
closure is where things fail pretty easy
what's some of the tricks for finding
closure think of ways that involve zero
zeros are often where problems happen
does that make sense after you determine
that you got closure see if there's an
identity inside of it does that make
sense an identity after you have an
identity then check to make sure every
single element has an inverse why is
that the hardest step because you may
have an infinite set that may be what
infinite in size and there may only be
one element that's causing the problem
which element is typically to be the
Troublemaker something trivial zero is a
good place to start does zero work out
can we make zero work you see how you
have to think out of the box what I'm
trying to make you guys kind of come
around to is how many guys have worked
as an internship
already when you guys are writing code
in Java or you're writing code in C++ or
whatever especially in the
objectoriented languages you may have
had programming assignments where you
just had to sequentially do things like
make it do this iterate through this
Loop when you get into your job you'll
start making abstract classes that can
handle almost any kind of element do
some sort of function return an
arbitrary one does that make sense so
like if you're a maybe a web designer
even web design even typescript allows
for such things as this where you you
could actually create things you could
pass in a URL link you could pass in a
feature toggle you could pass in this
and it has to recognize what it has
whether or not it can do anything on it
handle all the error cases and return
back something that Mak sense in the
context of what you got does that make
sense in that case we're talking about
making code portable you have to start
thinking outside the box of what you
traditionally think of in sequential
programming and usual arithmetic does
that make sense all right
it's a hot day for this kind of topic
don't you guys think anybody else in
here feel like wow this is deep for a
hot classroom right so the next time I
know you guys really hang on to my life
hack advice here what are you guys going
to do the next time you're waiting on a
table at that really nice restaurant
with your significant other you're going
to pull out a napkin and do
what come up with sets with an operation
ask each other if it's a group right no
extra charge for that
advice all right so we've already
determine
that division doesn't work for a group
under real numbers all let's see what
about the natural numbers are the
natural numbers a group under

addition are the natural numbers a group
under addition we've already got
somebody cast and vot I'm going to come
to you here just in a second so are we
got another vult are the naturals a

group
under addition in the traditional way
that we know
it all right so I've got some call outs
here let me walk you through and then as
soon as you guys hit the point where you
think this doesn't work I want you to
give me a shout out okay first do we
have a set that's not empty Are there
natural numbers cardinality is not zero
for sure right
secondly do we have an operation defined
that's understandable and we understand
what's happening usual addition we got
that correct close
is the naturals closed under addition I
think we tackled this last time if you
take any two natural numbers add them
together do you get another one
back okay what about an identity do the
natural numbers have an identity we've
got the call out what number do I what
natural number do I add by to always get
the result back or to get the original
back what number would I have to add to
one to get one
back zero but zero is not a natural
number so what do we say here it is a
set check it is an
operation there is an operation rather
check we do we have
closure check now what about an

identity
no it fails that does everybody see why
what number do you add to a natural
number to get that number back it would
have to be zero but zero is not a
zero is not a natural number now if you

guys start googling things I talk about
in class I want everybody to realize
that and I have to say the engineers are
kind of bad about this mathematicians we
are very we are very stuck on calling a
natural number starting at one
occasionally you'll see some Engineers
that will say well we kind of need zero
so let's define the natural numbers to
be all these numbers and let's add zero
to it to make sure it's there in that
case what you should do is do the
naturals Union the set containing the
zero or just simply call it the whole
numbers right anyway so the natural
numbers are a group under
addition no it fails the identity

test okay well Colin and some and some
other what's your name I know
Colin dantree dantree Colin
has shined on this example right
so I'm going to pitch back to these
folks here I'm going to say you know
what I can fix these problems that you
claim that I got and I'm going to ask
this question guess what question I'm
going to ask
now all right you guys think about it
then all right
are the whole numbers a

group
under addition
are the
whole maybe I didn't write this very
well are the whole
numbers a group under addition are the
whole numbers a group under
addition okay
well look the wheels are turning I can
see it correctly these two folks said
there's no inverse there's no sorry
there's no identity that I fix that with
this
set all right well let's see do we have
uh a set that's
nonempty yes do we have
closure yes do we
have what was the next
one an
operation check do we have what's the
next one identity did we solve that one

why
because under addition zero is the
addtive identity we fixed that with this
said didn't we ah now next one do we
have
inverses what I'm doing the best I can
to make you folks happy and you guys are
saying no one more time why is
that what number do I add to one to get
the identity which is

zero negative one but is negative one an
element inside this group inside this
set no so it
fails
inverses there is everybody starting to
catch on this a little bit more now it
fails inverses why 1 + -1 is 0 but -1 is

not in the set of whole numbers every
okay with
that all right maybe I'll verbally say
it out loud are the natural numbers
closed under multiplication in this case
do we have a
set do we have an operation do we have
closure yes all three of those yes yes
so far do we have an identity one is the
identity so good we're looking good so
far and then we stall out because why we
don't have inverses with the natural
numbers under multiplication because
what number do I multiply two by to get
one one over two but that is not a
natural number correct so it fails that
does everybody see how we do this what
about the holes are the holes a group
under multiplication actually the same
argument holes doesn't we got we got
problems there too all right well we
might as well head on here and see
what's else is happening what about the
the set of
integers a
group
under
addition who here wants to tackle this
for me is a set of integers a group
under
addition well we got some confident
folks let's make sure that they walk
through the steps I'm sure they did but
let's do it together as a class first
and foremost look at everybody smiling
everybody's excited make sure you're
smiling yeah there you
go
good good
okay good they're smiling right all
right this the integers a group under
addition do we have a set that's not
empty do we have an operation that's
well defined do we
have closure if I add two integers do I
get another
integer yep if I do I have an identity
what number do I add and I get the
number back if attitude so what do I add
to two to get two zero is zero an

integer yes good we're on a roll with
this one let's see what about so we got
everything up to an identity inverses
under addition what's the inverse of a
number to what number do I add to two to
get
zero is it in the set yeah it is both
two and negative -2 are in the set what
about
three3 what about 100 what do I add to
100 to get
zero that's in there now what I always
say I always check zero because that's
sometimes where the problem happens what
about zero what do I add to zero to get
zero not too hard be nice if we had a
final exam doing that right is there any
reason that anybody can think of why
this is not a group under addition think
of all those Edge cases as an
engineer by the way for those of you
guys that have written code I want you
guys to realize something it's rarely
ever the core of the problems that
anybody will ever have trouble writing
code for does that make sense rarely
ever is there a problem writing code the
true task of an engineer is to identify
the edge cases where things go to hell
right or there could be a division by
zero problem or there could be an
operation being happening on something
that doesn't exist a network failure or
a partial Network failure a delayed
response or something async that causes
a deadlock with something or a
synchronous function that causes a
deadlock because they simultaneously
wait and it locks a machine up right
think of the edge cases in this case I
think zero we've covered it so in this
case I feel comfortable saying that yes
this is a group under addition raise
your hand if you feel okay with that all
right
so now that everybody's comfortable and
everybody's got over this original panic
and everybody's like wow this guy I
don't know what his point of all this is
let me go ahead and let's go down the
rabbit hole a little bit
deeper
consider the set s which is

true and
false consider a set that just has the
Boolean values true and false anybody
familiar with those can we go ahead and
just abbreviate these as true sorry can
we go ahead and abbreviate these as true
and false is that okay why not right how
about would anybody mind if I go with
kind of a traditional programming
language approach and let's just call
this anybody got an
idea zero and one is that okay as though
we're looking at a copper wire where the
voltage going high and to ground back
and forth right so we have true and
false does everybody agree that I'm
going to consider this a set of either
one or zero one being true zero being
false every all clear on that and let's
define the
function
define
addition to be the exclusive

or
operation I want everybody to be quite
clear here does everybody agree that I
have now redefined Plus
as something
else how many you guys have had C++
programming just because we typically
Define I mean just because we typically
Define addition to be one way can you
actually create a class that has
matrices can you add
matrices can you add two sets I mean you
could do that maybe you could just
combine together maybe think of it as a
union perhaps you can Define addition of
anything you want as long as it's clear
what you're doing right and C+ plus has
anybody ever heard of operator
overloading raise your hand if you've
heard of that we can redefine addition
to be some other things where we could
take a matrix that's a class and a class
and another Matrix and add them together
and have a new class that's that we
could overload the addition function
right or the addition
operation now consider the set true or
false what the only two elements inside
my
set true and false what is my

operation
the exclusive or how many of you folks
are familiar with
that would it hurt if I go over it real
fast to make sure everybody's on board
how many of you remember back when you
were younger and you had the
multiplication tables where you had like
1 through 12 here and then you had 1
through 12 up here and then you kind of
looked inside there to see what 6 * 7
was you look at the intersection and
there you got it does anybody remember
that little table right you do not
remember that or you do you do okay you
do okay great so we got this table I'm
going to make an operation table out of
this so let's look at the operation
table where I have 0 1 0 1 and I'm going
to say this is my new addition operation
by the way I defined
it
now 0 plus 0 in the way I've defined it
is
what exclusive or it follows very
closely the or operation so if it's
false and false what do I get
here
false if one of them if it's false and
true what do I
get
true if I have true and false what do I
get now typically under the or statement
if either one of them is true that's
enough to make it true the exclusive or
takes it one step
further except what is exclusive means
what does it mean to be mutually
exclusive you can only have one or the
other right exclusive or is kind of like
a M exclusive or where like it follows
the ore operation until both of them are
true and then it reverts back to
what false that is the exclusive or for
those of you guys that are in
programming languages typically that's
denoted by the carrot symbol how many
you guys have ever used it
before this is actually the way things
are added inside of a processor the
exclusive or operation right this is how
when is anybody ever had a circuit class
where you build an Adder an Adder
circuit wasn't that essentially
following an exclusive of or except it
would carry the digit over right okay so
if I'm not making sense by saying all
that it's okay we won't need it but what
is my operation for one what if I take 0
+ 0 what do I get zero what if I take 0
+ 1 what do I get one what if I take 1
plus
0o one what if I do 1 plus one zero so
you see how we're kind of just on the
edge of being a little bit abstract here
right does everybody see that little
abstraction we got doesn't follow
doesn't make sense in the way that we
were taught arithmetic growing up but
it's the way that we have it is this a
group number one do we Sorry do we have
a
set do we have a set is it non-empty do
I have two elements in there true and
false good do I have an operation that
makes sense actually this is a complete
operation because I gave you the table
does everybody see that every
combination is labeled in that table
there we have two elements and we show
pairwise how they work and so this is is
a complete table so we have yes an
operation that's completely defined on
all
elements what about
closure if you make an operation table
and you look inside the table does
anybody see in the body of the table any
values that are not inside the set do
you guys agree that that's what that
mean does anybody look in the table do
you see anything in there that's not in
their set so what does that
automatically mean we have closure good
now what about an inverse sorry I keep
getting these out of order what about an
identity now this is where we're a
little bit abstract is there a number or
is there a value in there where it
appears that anytime it's paired up with
something else it appears to return back
that original value can I give you guys
a hint if you ever make an operation
table look down a column if it looks
like a column is identical to the labels
you've identified an identity does
everybody see my label right here on the
left hand side 01 does everybody
everybody see I'm going to make a little
dots everybody see how that's my label
column does everybody see that this one
mirrors
it that implies an identity right does
everybody see that it's true along the
top as well here's my labels table and
right here is my identity rule in both
cases what appears to be the identity
here false right is that true false
false appear be the
identity let it sink in make sure I'm
saying it right it's false an identity
here if I take that table okay what if I
take false and add true to it under this
operation table what do I get true what
if I take true and I add false to it
what do I get true so zero is the f is
the additive identity here right yes it
is is

zero okay we have an identity now let me
say one more thing
inverses it's hard to see here isn't it
does that make
sense does everything have an inverse M
meaning is there something I could add
to it to go back to the addtive
identity what do what do I add to zero
to get zero based on this table what do
I add to zero to get
zero zero so that works out there's only
one other element in the set right does
everybody agree with that what do I add
to one to get zero one does everybody
see how they're what we call this if I'm
not mistaken are things that were called
involutions where they're own inverses
does that make sense every okay with
that so we do have inverses what did we
conclude
here
that this is
a it is a group and then we all scream
out yes we've identified a set that's
abstract and it is I love the excitement
you need to be up here in the a roll
right I like lots of excitement Haley
what do you think about this excited
great great he oh okay you're asking
question
okay yes every element has to have an
inverse in fact you'll find out that
it's Unique to every element does -3
work as an inverse for any other value
out than three under addition of real
numbers so you'll find out that not only
are inverses exist but they're unique to
the element they're pawise unique to
each other does that make sense so every
element has to have an inverse and in
this case do you see that it's so
trivial that it's almost hard what do I
add zero what do I add to zero to get
zero under the table zero
what do I add to one to get zero one
does everybody see that
great well it turns out that how many
you guys have ever heard of the modu
modular
arithmetic this is essentially the table
that you would get if you take numbers
zero and one add them together and then
take the remainder the modulus remainder
of two what is 0 + 0 0 what is 0 + 1 1
what is 1 + 0 1 what is 1 + 1 that is
two but the remainder of two when you
divide by two is zero this is exclusive
or is actually modular arithmetic mod
two how many guys see that
now what is one divided two what is one
what is the quotient of 1 divid two 0
with a remainder of one
right what is 1 + 1 that's two what is
the quotient of two / two that's one but
the remainder is zero so effectively
that table is the set of remainders
whenever you do the addition arithmetic
with modular
2 that make sense okay very
important so it is a group
yes what about how about we do this one
what about s being the set of values
false and true
under the
and
operation under the and operation who
knows what the classical symbol is in
who knows what the classic symbol is for
and double and S was exclusive or was
that kind of carrot looking thing on the
number six there right typically all
right so let's go ahead and do a truth
table we call it right so I'm going to
make this
table uh I'm going to say that our
addition
is the and
operation we got our table the and
operation means that it has it can only
be true if both inputs are true does
everybody remember that from the
programming language if we have an if
condition on our statement if we use a
double Ampersand it must be the case
that these two things are both high in
order for it to be high on the output

right we did exclusive or before yeah
exclusive or where we we essentially
have exclusivity where it's follows the
or operation until both are set then it
goes this one good way is if you have if
you're ever using exclusive or exclusive
or is a way to where you can flip if you
have an input that you need to negate
sometimes but you can only pass in one
more input you could Define it to be
exclusive ore whenever you pass this one
in turn on the negate feature make the
exclusive or and it'll flip this origin
B in it's a trick that's common whenever
you have kind of restricted inputs of
sorts if that makes sense if I put in
zero and zero in an and operation I get
back zero good are you like a Bulan
expert oh well awesome even better I
like that what about zero and one we'll
just let we'll just keep on with you
zero okay what about one and zero oh
good what about one and
one okay so is this a group I tell you
what can I get you guys all of you are
sitting at a table could I get all of
you to sit there and discuss whether
this is a group or
not okay let's go through our things for
one who votes that we do have a set
that's non
empty do we have a set that's non empty
we do by the way why do we have to have
a set that's nonempty does anybody
remember what I said about the empty set
no matter what everything
is true about the empty set it doesn't
matter what goes on if you have an empty
set you could prove that there's a green
eyed line in there if you if you follow
a certain procedure right everything is
true about a set that contains nothing
so why do I have to say it has to be a
non-empty set is an empty set true is an
empty set a
group make Cas isly true because you
can't show there's anything in there
that fails it right all right so is it a
non-empty set yes does it contain a
well-defined operation we've completely
defined it by giving EXP the table of
all the interactions right so yes we do
have an operation that's well defined on
all elements what about do we have do we
have uh
closure that all you have to do is
visually inspect the table do you see
anything in there that's outside the
set01 so we do have
closure right anytime I say we have
closure I feel like we're recovering
from something sad or something but what
about next the next one was an identity
okay now this one serves a discussion
but I don't know what our result will be
let's let's go through it what do I add
what is the identity is there anything
in here that whenever I pair it with
this I will always get the other value
back what is our
conversation look through the columns
and if you see a column that matches the
label column perfectly on both the
horizontal row and the column you do
have a
what the number one is the ident here
right does everybody see that what is 1
+
0 0 what is 1 + one one what is 0 + 1 0o

what is 1+
0 zero do you see how one is acting like
an identity go down through there does
everybody see a column that mirrors the
label
column does everybody agree that this is
our label column and that this mirrors
it perfectly and and if we look at the
horizontal row it's perfectly as well so
do we have an identity yes it is the
number one is the
identity now what about inverses
whoops do not assume that that was the
right answer because I did that what
about
inverses huh let's look at the table we
got to vote for no here let's see if
this is right who else votes no we don't
have an
inverse what do I add under the and
operation what do I add to zero What's
the
identity one what do I add to zero to
get
one notice that if zero is present it's
zero no matter what both row and column
raise your hand if you see
that what do we say there is no

inverse for zero under the and operation
if you have a zero it makes it zero
there is no operation that will get you
to the number one there right how you
guys understand this example so is this
a
group it is not a
group it is not a
group okay now let me give you guys this
let me give you guys a thought
yeah
yeah yes you have when you're talking
about identity if you have an identity
it means that you have a column that
would mirror the label column right if
you think about what that's implying
it's not it's not nothing deep it's
actually just kind of straightforward
like what do you get to that this well
if it's in that column that's the
identity right so if you have so here's
another extent if you have a column that
look look at the columns if you have a
column that perfectly matches the the
row column which is this one it means
that must be the
identity take a look up here do we have
have one that perfectly matched the
label column it's this one so which one
is the
identity this one does that make sense
all right now we're at the point where I
feel like this is as far as I want to go
into groups let's go into what we call
the abstract notion does everybody agree
that when we have a set of numbers that
we grew up knowing how to add them and
multiply them does everybody agree that
the real numbers are closed under
addition but they are not
closed
under well let's say we we have sets
let's back up does everybody agree that
under addition the natural numbers are

closed right does everybody agree that
the integers are a group under addition
but they are not a group under
multiplication does that make sense so
here let's introduce the idea of a
ring a ring is defined where we have to
have
both addition
and
multiplication here's the
rules
R is a
set
R is a
group
under
addition
R
needs an
identity under

multiplication n
r let's make sure we get this

NR plus I'm sorry
multiplication
distributes
over
addition by the way let's suppose this
does everybody remember this that if I I
have a * b + C does everybody remember
what parentheses means parentheses means
do that first if you have a
ring and now remember plus and
multiplication are defined abstractly
here but we can represent it just in
typical States if I take a set and I
first add B and C together and then I
take that value and multiply it with a
does everybody see what I'm saying there
I first add B and C together under the
ring
operation then I take that value I
multiply it by a with multiplication
under the ring that would be the same
thing as if I took a multiplied it with
B
plus a and multiplying it with C does
everybody remember how this distributes
just in our regular arithmetic as we
grew up knowing it does everybody agree
with

this
oh this is
multiplication the the dot sorry that's
a good point multiplication distributes
over addition okay now what I want us to
consider that I want you guys to go home
and consider is
consider
s where 0er and
one are elements of the set I want you
guys to be clear about something there's
one more thing there's actually one more
condition here an R that's not true for
all sets it needs to be something we
call a billion but I won't hold you to
that one a billion means that the
elements commute matrices can form a
group and notice that matrices don't
commute the order of operation the if
you add if you multiply two matrices
it's different depending on which way
you multiply them a * B is different
than b * a we'll leave you to that one
let's define s to be the set of values
true or false addition ition is the
exclusive or function that I defined
earlier multiplication is the and
operation I defined
earlier let's see if you guys can make
sure that you understand that this is a
ring this is a
ring

specifically this is
gf2 it's the gawa FI of two elements and
this is how
computers
typically do

arithmetic in multiplication in binary
how does how how does it work it follows
the and operation how does a addition
work in binary it follows the exclusive
or operation does that make sense raise
your hand if you follow what I've tried
to arrive at here is kind of the finale
how do computers G
gf2 how do computers add they follow

the
no so we breaking up the ring exor how
do computers add how do typically binary
devices add they follow the exclusive or
operation how do computers typically
multiply they follow the and operation
together just like we have like real
numbers where we can add and multiply
them to do all the arithmetic that we
need don't computers need to have that
same completeness to where it has a
bitstream that it may need to add and
multiply in order for everything in the
world to work out the conversion of
bases the ability to to work no matter
what we're doing under you have to have
a ring to find the integers alone aren't
complete enough the real numbers are
complete enough does that make sense
everybody needs to realize that under a
ring inverses are not necessary under
the multiplication does that make sense
what's the only group it's a group under
addition the only conditions we have on
the multiplication is that it
distributes over the
addition and we have an identity
right is that okay in more abstract
mathematics they'll dismiss one or two
of those things but that's for the most
part it on the next class if you guys
don't mind on the next lecture I'm going
to prove to you guys all the step have
to show that gf2 is a ring and then
we're done with this entire topic final
okay does anybody feel like this is just
too
terrible so what next next lecture we're
going to do what we're going to
basically show that gf2 fits this
definition and then we're done with it
okay all right no
problem